--------------------------------------------
Practical Exercise — Explore an API Concept
--------------------------------------------

Job Portal API Endpoints

1. GET /api/jobs

This endpoint is used to retrieve all available jobs from the job portal.
It sends a request to the server and gets a list of jobs as a response.


2. POST /api/jobs

This endpoint is used to create a new job.
A recruiter can send job details such as job title, company, salary, and location.
The server then saves the new job.


3. DELETE /api/jobs/:id

This endpoint is used to delete a specific job.
The :id represents the unique ID of the job that needs to be deleted.

Example:
DELETE /api/jobs/123

This will delete the job with ID 123.




--------------------------------------------------
Practical Exercise — Identify the MERN Components
--------------------------------------------------

Application: Employee Management System

1. User Interface — React

React is responsible for creating the user interface of the employee management system.
Administrators can use React pages and forms to create, view, update, and delete employees.

2. Backend API — Express.js

Express.js is responsible for creating the backend API.
It handles requests such as creating, retrieving, updating, and deleting employee records.

3. Server-side JavaScript Execution — Node.js

Node.js is responsible for running JavaScript on the server.
It provides the environment in which the Express.js backend runs and processes API requests.

4. Database — MongoDB

MongoDB is responsible for storing employee records.
It can store information such as employee name, email, department, salary, and other details.

Summary:

React     → User Interface
Express.js → Backend API
Node.js   → Server-side JavaScript
MongoDB   → Database


----------------------------------
Debugging Exercise
----------------------------------

I created a JavaScript program with an undeclared variable.

Initial code:

const userName = "Developer";

console.log(userName);
console.log(userEmail);

When I ran the program using Node.js, I received a ReferenceError because
userEmail was not declared.

Error:
ReferenceError: userEmail is not defined

I fixed the error by declaring the missing variable:

const userEmail = "developer@example.com";

After fixing the error, the program successfully displayed:

Developer
developer@example.com

This exercise helped me understand that errors are a normal part of
software development and debugging is used to identify and fix those errors.



REFLECTION ACTIVITY — DAY 1

1. What is the difference between frontend and backend development?

Frontend development focuses on the part of an application that users can see and interact with. In the MERN stack,
 React is mainly used for frontend development.

Backend development handles the server-side logic, APIs, authentication, and communication with the database. 
Express.js and Node.js are mainly used for backend development.


2. Why is JavaScript important in the MERN stack?

JavaScript is important because it is used throughout the MERN stack. React uses JavaScript for the frontend, 
while Node.js and Express.js use JavaScript for the backend. This allows developers to use one programming language 
for both frontend and backend development.


3. What role does MongoDB play in an application?

MongoDB is the database in the MERN stack. It stores application data such as users,
 jobs, and job applications. The backend can create, read, update, and delete this data.


4. What is the purpose of an API?

An API allows different parts of an application to communicate with each other. 
For example, a React frontend can send a request to an Express backend through an API to retrieve or create job information.


5. What happens when a React frontend sends a request to an Express backend?

When React sends a request, the request goes to an Express API endpoint. 
Express receives and processes the request. The backend may interact with MongoDB to get or update data. Then Express sends a response, 
usually in JSON format, back to the React frontend. React displays the received data to the user.


6. Why are CRUD operations important?

CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, and Delete. These operations are important because most applications 
need to create, view, modify, and delete data. For example, a job portal can create a job, read job details, 
update a job, and delete a job.


7. What application would you like to build using MERN?

I would like to build a Job Portal using MERN. It will allow job seekers to search and apply for jobs, 
recruiters to post and manage jobs, and administrators to manage users and job listings.


8. Which part of MERN do you currently understand the least?

Currently, I understand React and frontend development the least. I want to learn more about 
React components, state management, API integration, and how React communicates with the backend.